---
title: "My Future Workstation"
date: 2022-11-22T11:28:30-05:00
draft: false 
---

For the uninitiated, I'm still in High School. That being said, college is right
around the corner, and thus started my search for a laptop to carry around
campus and do actual college work. I currently do have an iPad, but some apps
that I would like to use and need to use for college (especially since I will be
going into an engineering major) are not available and thus make getting a
laptop a necessary purchase.

## Why not a Macbook?

A solid choice for college students is the all-fabled, legendary Macbook; and to
be honest I am not in opposition of it. However, what concerns me is the fact
that Apple typically tends to have a walled-garden aspect to their hardware and
software that goes a long with their hardware. This could be an issue, as with
talking with other engineering students (especially ones that are going into my
field) tend to use Windows-heavy hardware.

Even with the "Windows-Only" software that colleges make you use for engineering
you can get around that with a Macbook. They can run VMs surprisingly well and
even then if it doesn't work its not the end of the world. (Computer labs exist
ðŸ˜‰)

## The Actual Setup

But lets get onto the actual meat and potatoes of this article: What would my
future workstation look like? First off, It would be all laptops. "Why would you
want all laptops?" You may ask. And while that is a good question especially
consdering the lack of performance most commonly found on laptops for the same
price as a good tower computer. However, tower computers come with a drawback.
While they pack in a lot of performance for little price (well not so much
anymore but you get my drift) you can't *easily* take them on a plane much less
USE them on a plane, or even in a car for that matter. How good it is to have a
computer you don't even use that much that you have to use in the plane or in
the car. Portability is what I will strive for in my new workstation, because I
know just how much it sucks to only have your phone or iPad, where those  aren't
really that useable, espeically when it comes to prgramming and doing normal,
every-day tasks with maximum productivity, tablets and phones just don't cut it.

However, I would not only use these JUST because of the portability. While one
part of the issue is graphics horsepower, that will be touched upon in a later
paragraph. What will also be included on the shopping list will be two
Thunderbolt docks, along with a new 1440p/4K monitor with a 165Hz refresh rate
that will be an IPS or VA panel for maximum color accuracy. I already do have
two monitors, which are measly 75Hz and TN panel, but they work as monitors,
which would most likely go on the Macbook for maxmium productivity.

## Wait, Who Could Need More Than One Laptop?

You may have noticed in the previous paragraph that I specified laptops.  Yes,
there would be two. Some can already guess why, but to those who havent: One
will be a Macbook (probably  Pro) and a Windows laptop that is able to dualboot
both Windows and Linux. In an ideal world, the setup would look like this, at
the current time. Technology is always advancing, but if I had around $5,500
right now, this is what I would get in terms of the actual hardware I would get
(or extrapolated from data I can predict on):

Keep in mind that the setup I list here (except for probably the Macbook) is all
for the future, not in the present day.

- Macbook Pro 14" ($2400-$2800 USD)
  - M2 Pro (10 core CPU, 14 Core GPU)
  - 16-32GB RAM depending on workload
  - 1TB SSD
- Framework Laptop ($1522 USD)
  - Intel Core i7-1260p
  - 1TB NVMe SSD
  - 32GB RAM
  - 1&times;USB-A Expansion Slot
  - 3&times;USB-C Expansion Slot
  - 1&times;Ethernet Expansion Slot

Also related but not strictly a laptop/computer:

- Razer Core X ($325)
  - AMD Radeon RX-7700XT ($TBD)
- ASUS TUF Gaming VG27AQ ($310)
- Anker 577 ($330)
  - This would probably be shared between laptops

This will total out to about $5500-$6000 (Yay credit card debt!) but considering
how long it would not only last me, but also the productivity curated by this
setup would pay this off over time.

## How Good Will Gaming Be?

I assume most of you noticed that I did not include a GPU in with this mess; or
even a laptop that comes with a built-in GPU. To be frank, laptops with GPUs are
worse. They have worse thermals, cost an arm and a leg (and yet here I am
talking about Macbooks), and look just.. BAD.  This is why opting for an eGPU is
just plain better. An eclosure costs around $300, and since the laptop hardware
isn't too powerful a mid-tier GPU such as the soon-to-be-released AMD Radeon
RX-7700XT. This would probably be the perfect card for my usecase, as even
though AMD support for enterprise and engineering applicatios is sub-par at
best, It would be just fine to get me through.  Considering this would be a
personal setup to begin with, the computer(s) I would get from work would be
more than adequate for the stuff at work I need to do. My personal stuff I would
like to keep as Linux-compatible as possible because I personally like Linux and
don't want a crappy driver experience.

## NVIDIA

That being said, I currently have not had any problems with NVIDIA's drivers on
Linux, even before they decided to open-source them. I always just installed
them through DKMS, and they worked like a charm, **after** I disabled Nouveau. I
don't know why Nouveau was enabled by default even after install the proptietary
drivers, but it's whatever as it still worked; quite well actually. While I find
it  an inconvience to install the proprietary drivers, I don't exactly find it a
huge nuicense. I wish NVIDIA did suppoort GeForce Now or something along those
lines on Linux, but it is what it is. NVIDIA support through eGPUs is iffy at
best, especially since it uses Xorg which is iffy on eGPUs in general, but Xorg
is fine because I use (or will use) DWM as my display manager (see my github
ðŸ˜‰). Wayland is another issue, as I really want to use it and since Linux
doesn't support a lot of what I do anyway, I might as well use it.

## I/O

This makes me torn. Now, because it is my personal laptop and I will probably be
provided a laptop for work, I can reasonably get whatever I want, especially
considering that the Macbook Pro would have plenty of horsepower for any CAD or
any computation work, especially with the new M2 chip and 32GB of RAM, but the
RAM ugrade is really expensive even if it pays itself off. There is the valid
question: "Why the Macbook Pro? The Air has the same or almost the same base
specifications!" And you would be correct except for the stark lack of I/O on
the Air. "BUT yOu CaN juST gEt A thUnDErBoLt DoCK!" And while that is
correct, you cannot have 32GB of RAM on the Air and bandwidth is limited between
those ports, not allowing the 2 Thunderbolt ports on the Air to have maximum
speed rather than sharing bandwidth with a monitor, SD card, and you even get an
extra Thunderbolt port! Not to mention the extra fan for added cooling. Even
though it seemes like a money sink, the upfront cost will eventaully pay off, or
at least I hope so.

## Final Notes

I guess it will come down to personal preference and also how well I make it
through college with a Macbook to start, as that is probably what I will start
out with. Whatever happens, I have enough wit and determination to make sure
that I can get my work done in one way or another, even if it required getting a
new computer, which wouldn't be the end of the world as there are some things
that can be done on both withouut a hitch, and having two (or three!) different
operating systems never hurt anyone.
